docs - new field types page; delete database basics (#19126)
metabase/metabase: docs/users-guide/field-types.md

# Field types in Metabase

> Understanding what field types are and how they function in Metabase will help you become more familiar with your own data and get the most out of Metabase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Think we can skip the preamble; if they're on this page, they want to know about field types.

> While data types indicate to a database how it should interpret the values in a field, __field types__ or __semantic types__ describe the _meaning_ of a field. For example, a column's data type could be ```type/text``` but the semantic type may be __Email__. Field types are just one example of metadata—information that about your data—that you can change in Metabase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While data types indicate to a database how it should interpret the values in a field, __field types__ or __semantic types__ describe the _meaning_ of a field. For example, a column's data type could be ```type/text``` but the semantic type may be __Email__. Field types are just one example of metadata—information about data—that Admins can change in Metabase.
```

We should link to the Data model page here so Admins can learn what other metadata they can modify. (I see the section below links to it, but the reader might not make it that far).

## List of Metabase Field Types

> Field types dictate how Metabase displays its data, as well as the column’s special functionality, if any. By marking columns in a table as __Latitude__ and __Longitude__, Metabase can use the columns to create pin and heat maps. Similarly, designating a column as a __URL__ allows users to click on the link to visit that URL. 

Reviewer: Maybe move this paragraph to the previous section so the heading above indicates the start of the list?

  - Longitude
  - State
  - Zip Code
- **Financial**
  - Cost
  - Currency
  - Discount
  - Gross margin
  - Income
  - Price
- **Numeric**
  - Quantity
  - Score
  - Share
- **Profile**
  - Birthday
  - Company
  - Email
  - Owner
  - Subscription
  - User
- **Date and Time**
  - Cancelation date
  - Cancelation time
  - Cancelation timestamp
  - Creation date
  - Creation time
  - Creation timestamp
  - Deletion date
  - Deletion time
  - Deletion timestamp
  - Updated date
  - Updated time
  - Updated timestamp
  - Join date
  - Join time
  - Join timestamp
  - UNIX Timestamp (Milliseconds)
  - UNIX Timestamp (Seconds)
- **Categorical**
  - **Enum** - An abbreviation for “enumerated type,” the value of an enum draws on a predefined list of options. An example of an enum would be a field for the months of the year. This list of twelve options is defined in makeup of the column, and no options outside this list would be valid.
  - Product
  - Source
- **URLs**
  - Avatar Image URL
  - Image URL
  - URL
- **Other**
  - Field containing JSON
  - **No semantic type** – Used for fields that don't fall into any of the above field types.

## Using field types in Metabase

### X-rays

> When you [X-ray](14-x-rays.md) a chart or table, Metabase considers both the data type and the field type and based on those categorizations displays insights that you may find useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you [X-ray](14-x-rays.md) a table, Metabase considers both the data type and the field type to display different charts that summarize that data.
```

### Field Filters

Knowing what field types are and how they work is helpful when using [field filters](/learn/sql-questions/field-filters.html), as you can only create field filters for [certain field types](./13-sql-parameters.md/#field-filter-compatible-types).

### Editing types in the Data Model page

If you're an administrator, you can edit field types using the [Data Model page](../administration-guide/03-metadata-editing.md) in the Admin Panel.

> While data types themselves can't be edited in Metabase, admins can manually [cast data types](../administration-guide/03-metadata-editing.md/#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) to be read differently, like interpreting a numerical data type as a date format.

Reviewer: Nice example.
